hi there DW Berman here and I just want
to go over the new anti-aliasing
settings for light wave 11 this is the
new unified sampling setup that is being
touted it'll save you a ton of time in
your renders if you did not optimize
your samples in the previous version of
light wave first of all all of our
anti-aliasing settings and shading
quality settings are here in the render
Global's tab or render Global's panel
which is you know over here it's control
P now for the keyboard shortcut we have
the render tab and we have the cameras
setting our camera setting here we have
a minimum samples of maximum samples
adaptive sampling and the threshold and
that those are pretty much our our key
camera settings for anti-aliasing we
have our render tab over here we have
shading samples and light samples what
shading samples is that's like if you're
using an occlusion node or you're doing
a reflection blurring a refraction
blurring where it's something where in
light wave 9 you had your separate
controls let me go over here I'm in
light wave 9 here if I go to my surface
editor and I go to my cube you can see I
have an occlusion node plugged in here
and I have a sample setting that is you
know how many points does the renderer
look at when it's looking to render that
shader and the lower that number is the
gray near your image will be and if you
look on the environment tab and the
surface editor in light wave 9 you have
a reflection sample and a refraction
sample and since I'm over here I'll show
you in our light properties has a
quality setting this is the quality of
the shadow how grainy our shadow is and
the camera properties we have anti
aliasing and adaptive sampling and
threshold and just by way of comparison
I'm going to hit f9 with our
anti-aliasing set to 1 and our adaptive
sampling turned on with a threshold set
201 and you'll see
it renders it at the anti-aliasing
setting of one so it's kind of grainy
and then it starts looking at which
parts of the image need to be smoothed
out more and then it starts tackling
those and every single adaptive sampling
pass takes a progressively longer amount
of time because it's doubling the number
of samples being taken so at the end of
your render here it could take quite a
bit of time because it's throwing an
exponential number of samples it's
throwing millions of samples at it
depending on your quality settings but
enough of that
so in light-weight 11 with the exact
same settings our lights and stuff are
set to their defaults and our minimum
maximum our minimum samples here which
is equal to the anti-aliasing setting in
light wave 9 they're both set to 1 and
our adaptive sampling is turned on and
our threshold is set to o1 remember it
was smoothing it out but it was taking
longer and longer to each pass now when
I hit f9 it renders instantly and it's
not smoothed out at all well what's
changed is in light wave 9 and 10 if you
have an adaptive sampling turned on
lightweight but automatically change the
number of samples for each successive
adaptive sampling pass now I can set
that number manually so now I can limit
how long it takes for each adaptive
sampling pass to take and this number
here will ultimately give me a maximum
number of samples that can be used in
our scene I know I'm just reading what
it says on the interface so it's you
know not rocket science really it's just
confusing because our settings are
different okay let's let's look at how
these different pieces interacts let me
set my minimum samples to 1 and my
maximum samples to 1 and my shading
samples to 1 and my light samples to 1
and now I basically have no no shading
going on
no no anti-aliasing happening at all
anywhere in the program so you can see
our shadows look really rough and our
shading on our cube looks really rough
and of course you know our edges are
Jaggi but the image is so noisy we can't
even tell how Jaggi our images are so
let me change my lighting samples or my
shading samples to eight I'll just hit
render so you can see what that looks
like it's grainy but it's much better
than it was you can actually see what's
going on now
let me change my light samples to eight
these are the default settings these are
set to eight you can see it looks pretty
decent
I mean it's grainy but it's pretty
decent just notice the level of
graininess that there is right now I'm
going to change these settings back to
one remember that looks terrible I'm
gonna change my maximum samples to eight
what it's doing now is it's going
through the adaptive sampling process
and it's bringing all of those noisy
areas up to a sample setting of eight
you know and making sure it's sampled to
eight times so that looks pretty similar
to what we had here only now our edges
are smooth so this is our light quality
setting my light samples set to eight
and my surface shader setting set to
eight and this is my scene with the
light sample sets at one and the shading
sample set the one but the maximum
samples is set to eight I'm going to
change my maximum samples back to one
and I'm gonna set my minimum samples to
eight and you'll see it's pretty much
the same this image looks the same as
that image and that image looks pretty
close to this image except now our with
our without the camera samples set our
edges are Jaggi so basically the upshot
is you don't necessarily need to have
your quality settings on our shading
samples and our light samples set very
high at all you can leave them set to
one even or you might want to set them
higher to two or three but you don't
really need them at 8 unless you run
into a particular instance
you're everything else looks great but
your shadow quality is just not up to
the justjust not matching or is your the
shading on your surface is noisy but
everything else looks great so otherwise
you can just leave this set pretty low
there's a lot more you can learn about
this stuff
rebel Hill did a great video on it and
Jen had a great lecture on it at the LA
light wave user group meeting I
encourage you to watch both of those
videos there's some overlapping content
and they're kind of long but there's
good information that you really should
understand about this whole set up and I
hope you have a great day and I hope you
found this useful